Denton residents support temporary pause on data center development as city weighs future - CBS Texas Latest U.S. Iran War Cuba Plans World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Texas | News Weather Sports Video Texas Monthly Local Business Eye on Politics Politics Consumer Education Tech The I-Team HealthWatch Entertainment Texas Weather Live Radar Closings/Cancellations Weather Watcher Network Gardening 101 Weather on Wheels Mobile 11 Climate Connection All Sports CBS Sports HQ Cowboys Rangers Mavericks Stars FC Dallas Wings NASCAR Golf Tennis College Sports High School Sports Station Info CBS 11 / TXA 21 Advertise CBS Television Jobs Upload Your Photos Galleries Download the App Memorials Watch CBS News Local News Denton residents support temporary pause on data center development as city weighs future By Amelia Mugavero Amelia Mugavero Amelia Mugavero joins CBS News Texas team as a reporter. Amelia was born and raised in Dallas, Texas, and graduated from John Paul II High School. Read Full Bio Amelia Mugavero Updated on: September 23, 2026 / 5:44 AM CDT / CBS Texas Add CBS News on Google Denton residents spoke out Tuesday night as the city considers a temporary moratorium on new data center development. The Denton City Council held the first of two required public hearings on the proposed moratorium. No vote was taken on Tuesday. The second hearing is scheduled for Oct. 27. All 20 people who spoke during the hearing supported the moratorium, with some calling for restrictions beyond the proposed pause, including a longer moratorium or an outright ban on future data center development. "If you are in support of the moratorium, can you raise your hands?" Mayor Pro Tem Nick Stevens asked during the hearing. If approved, the moratorium would temporarily halt the city's acceptance, processing, and approval of applications for new data center developments. It would not affect projects that have already been approved. The city is considering the pause as officials examine the impact of data centers on Denton's electric transmission system. City staff have warned that the system is already operating near capacity. Denton Municipal Electric has proposed roughly $300 million in transmission projects to address the issue and is awaiting a response from the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, or ERCOT. The city also points to the financial benefits of existing data centers, saying they have generated more than $3.5 million in taxes and nearly $9 million in electric return-on-investment and franchise fees. But residents who spoke Tuesday focused largely on the potential strain on city resources. "What do these data centers bring to our community? If the only answer is money, then essentially they are giving us nothing in exchange for our resources," Denton resident Seth Fuller said. Mayor Chris Watts said the public comments gave city leaders a clear indication of how residents feel about the issue. "You sent a very clear message to the community, to us, that those are not the kind of conversations that we want to have and it's important to hear your voices," Watts said. Denton's proposed moratorium comes as Gov. Greg Abbott takes action at the state level. On Monday, Abbott directed the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality to halt the issuance of data center permits until ERCOT completes an industry audit. He also directed state agencies not to proceed with regulatory approvals for data center development until information from ongoing state reviews becomes available. What happens next? The Denton City Council is scheduled to hold a second public hearing on the proposed moratorium on Oct. 27. City officials have outlined a process that could bring the proposal back to the council for final consideration in early December. Denton is among several North Texas communities considering additional restrictions on data center development. More from CBS News Abbott takes more steps to regulate data centers in Texas amid close governor's race At least 900 Flock cameras have been unplugged in Texas since state funding was cut Westlake ends police services contract with Keller. Who will take over? Sanger ISD teen killed in school bus crash in Denton County, district says In: Denton Data Centers Texas North Texas © 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Featured Local Savings Denton residents support pause on new data center development 02:34 Denton residents support pause on new data center development (02:34) Abbott takes more steps to regulate data centers in Texas amid close governor's race At least 900 Flock cameras have been unplugged in Texas since state funding was cut Westlake ends police services contract with Keller. Who will take over? Sanger ISD teen killed in school bus crash in Denton County, district says Featured Political News Iran War Latest NFL Scores College Football Rankings Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok X CBS News Texas Meet the Team Program Guide Contact Us Advertise With Us Terms & Conditions Sitemap Regulation Public File for KTVT-TV Public File for KTXA-TV Public Inspection File Help FCC Applications EEO Report Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman ©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue